*****************************
Project-Centric Data Storage
*****************************


Project directories provide members of a project with a common place to
store code, data, and other files related to their project.

.. _project-home-directories-nfs:

Project Home Directories (NFS)
===============================

============== ====================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====
*Name*         Path                   Type Permissions Backups Purged Quota
============== ====================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====
*Project Home* ``/ccs/proj/[projid]`` NFS  770         yes     no     50GB
============== ====================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====

Projects are provided with a Project Home storage area in the
NFS-mounted filesystem. This area is intended for storage of data, code,
and other files that are of interest to all members of a project. Since
Project Home is an NFS-mounted filesystem, its performance will not be
as high as other filesystems.

Project Home Path
------------------

Project Home area is accessible at ``/ccs/proj/abc123`` (where
``abc123`` is your project ID).

Project Home Quotas
---------------------

To check your project’s current usage, run ``df -h /ccs/proj/abc123``
(where ``abc123`` is your project ID). Quotas are enforced on project
home directories. The current limit is shown in the table above.

Project Home Permissions
-------------------------

The default permissions for project home directories are ``0770`` (full
access to the user and group). The directory is owned by root and the
group includes the project’s group members. All members of a project
should also be members of that group-specific project. For example, all
members of project “ABC123” should be members of the “abc123” UNIX
group.

Three Project Work Areas to Facilitate Collaboration
-----------------------------------------------------

To facilitate collaboration among researchers, the OLCF provides (3)
distinct types of project-centric work storage areas: *Member Work*
directories, *Project Work* directories, and *World Work* directories.
Each directory should be used for storing files generated by
computationally-intensive HPC jobs related to a project.

+----------------+--------------------------------------------+-----------------+-------------+---------+-----------+-------+
| *Name*         | Path                                       | Type            | Permissions | Backups | Purged    | Quota |
+================+============================================+=================+=============+=========+===========+=======+
|  *Member Work* | ``/gpfs/alpine/scratch/[userid]/[projid]`` | Spectrum Scale  | 700         | no      | 90 days   | 50TB  |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------+-----------------+-------------+---------+-----------+-------+
| *Project Work* | ``/gpfs/alpine/proj-shared/[projid]``      | Spectrum Scale  | 770         | no      | 90 days   | 50TB  |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------+-----------------+-------------+---------+-----------+-------+
| *World Work*   | ``/gpfs/alpine/world-shared/[projid]``     | Spectrum Scale  | 775         | no      | 90 days   | 50TB  |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------+-----------------+-------------+---------+-----------+-------+


The difference between the three lies in the accessibility of the data
to project members and to researchers outside of the project. Member
Work directories are accessible only by an individual project member by
default. Project Work directories are accessible by all project members.
World Work directories are readable by any user on the system.

Permissions
^^^^^^^^^^^

UNIX Permissions on each project-centric work storage area differ
according to the area’s intended collaborative use. Under this setup,
the process of sharing data with other researchers amounts to simply
ensuring that the data resides in the proper work directory.

-  Member Work Directory: ``700``
-  Project Work Directory: ``770``
-  World Work Directory: ``775``

For example, if you have data that must be restricted only to yourself,
keep them in your Member Work directory for that project (and leave the
default permissions unchanged). If you have data that you intend to
share with researchers within your project, keep them in the project’s
Project Work directory. If you have data that you intend to share with
researchers outside of a project, keep them in the project’s World Work
directory.

Backups
--------

Member Work, Project Work, and World Work directories **are not backed
up**. Project members are responsible for backing up these files, either
to Project Archive areas (HPSS) or to an off-site location.

Project Archive Directories
============================

================= ================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====
*Name*            Path               Type Permissions Backups Purged Quota
================= ================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====
*Project Archive* ``/proj/[projid]`` HPSS 770         no      no     100TB
================= ================== ==== =========== ======= ====== =====

Projects are also allocated project-specific archival space on the High
Performance Storage System (HPSS). The default quota is shown on the
table above. If a higher quota is needed, contact the User Assistance
Center.

The Project Archive space on HPSS is intended for storage of data not
immediately needed in either Project Home (NFS) areas nor Project Work
(Alpine) areas, and to serve as a location to store backup copies of
project-related files.

Project Archive Path
---------------------

The project archive directories are located at ``/proj/pjt000`` (where
``pjt000`` is your Project ID).

Project Archive Access
-----------------------

Project Archive directories may only be accessed via utilities called
HSI and HTAR. For more information on using HSI or HTAR, see the :ref:`hpss` section.

